HW for Week 10:
* Analyze your data; run different models and compare them; update your research questions based on your preliminary findings.
    * Other things I could do:
    * Code for five different types of reflection (Valli): technical, reflection-in and on action, deliberative reflection, personalistic reflection, and critical reflection. Does this apply to learners as well as teachers?
    
    
* What is your metric for success? Make sure that you think about how you are going to check whether your approach was successful. Are you going to present numbers, visualizations or something else to share your results? What are they going to look like, if your hypothesis was correct?
* Research your topic and find online resources to help you analyze your data (e.g., one datacamp course).

# Annotated Bibliography

## Q. Liu, S. Zhang, Q. Wang and W. Chen, "Mining Online Discussion Data for Understanding Teachers Reflective Thinking," in IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 243-254, 1 April-June 2018. doi: 10.1109/TLT.2017.2708115. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7934007

Abstract: Teachers' online discussion text data shed light on their reflective thinking. With the growing scale of text data, the traditional way of manual coding, however, has been challenged. In order to process the large-scale unstructured text data, it is necessary to integrate the inductive content analysis method and educational data mining techniques. An inductive content analysis on samples taken from 17,624 posts was implemented and the categories of teachers' reflective thinking were obtained. Based on the results of inductive content analysis, we implemented a single-label text classification algorithm to classify the sample data. Then, we applied the trained classification model on a large-scale and unexplored online discussion text data set and two types of visualizations of the results were provided. By using the categories gained from inductive content analysis to create a radar map, teachers' reflection level was represented. In addition, a cumulative adjacency matrix was created to characterize the evolution of teachers' reflective thinking. This study could partly explain how teachers reflected in online professional learning environments and brought awareness to educational policy makers, teacher training managers, and education researchers.

Notes:
* "The purposes of this research are 1) to explore the categories of teachers reflective thinking and realize the automatic classification of the online discussion data by integrating the inductive content analysis and educational data mining techniques; and 2) to analyze teachers reflective thinking in the online teacher professional development program, including teachers reflection levels and evolution.

* Why online PD? "The way of online profession development provides convenience and flexibility for teachers to participate in learning activities, interact and communicate with colleagues and mentors in ways that would have previously been difficult. Operating blog-based teaching portfolios as an online learning community tool for teachers to discuss, negotiate and reflect on their own understanding of teaching experience, researchers have showed a positive impact of blog-based teaching portfolios on teachers professional development [16]. The online learning community help teachers establish their professional identity, reduce isolation, and enhance their reflective practice [17], [18]. Reflective practice has long been considered as a key activity in quality teacher professional development programs [3]."

* DCLA: "Discourse-centric learning analytics (DCLA) focus on learners discourse to identify patterns of meaningful learning and knowledge construction [30]. DCLA can reveal the presence or absence of the intended knowledge construction processes which can serve as good indicators for tracking and assessing whether the unfolding learning processes are productive or not from the perspective of co-construction of knowledge [31], [32]. The emergence of social constructivist approaches to education also prompts the appearance of applications to analyze the discourse of users within the context of social networks. After defining the domain-specific epistemic frame, epistemic network analysis (ENA) uses the elements of the epistemic frame as the nodes and creates an adjacency matrix to represent the co-occurrences of nodes in each line of chat data [33]. ENA can characterize students discourse and visualize the structure of their epistemic frame. Under the guidance of ENA, we defined the nodes and the co-occurrences of nodes within a discussion data as the connections, and created a cumulative adjacency matrix to characterize the development of teachers reflective thinking."

* research model:
"Phase 1: We developed a data collection tool to collect teacher-generated online discussion data. We obtained 21,388 posts by using the data collection tool over a period of 6 months.

Phase 2: A random sample (2,000 posts) were drawn from the online discussion data set and used for inductive content analysis.

Phase 3: Three experts who had experience with qualitative research and familiarity with pre-existing cod-ing schemes collaborated on the inductive content anal-ysis process. Three experts conducted an inductive content analysis on the random sample of online discussion data set. After phase 3, we obtained the categories used for text classification.

Phase 4: A single-label Nave Bayes Classification algorithm had been implemented to classify the labeled data. Then, we evaluated the performance of the single-label Nave Bayes classification algorithm by comparing it with other commonly used text classification algorithm.

Phase 5: We implemented a large-scale text classification based on the trained classification model. All the online discussion data has been automatically coded.

Phase 6: We visually represented teachers reflection levels after we obtained the results of large-scale text classification. Additionally, we created a cumulative adjacency matrix to characterize the evolution of teachers reflective thinking. Then, the results of text classification and visualization were sent back to the data storage."

* Protecting participants:
"In this study, three steps were taken to protect the gathered data: (1) all participant names were replaced with pseudonyms; (2) we only analyzed the online discussion text data; and (3) we only present the results of data analysis and did not release the original data."

* Types of reflection: technical, reflection-in and on action, deliberative reflection, personalistic reflection, and critical reflection.
"A number of coding schemes for analyzing teachers reflective thinking were development [41]. Van Manen [42] distinguished three levels of reflection. At the first level of reflection, teachers dominant concern was with technical rationality (applying knowledge in order to reach predetermined educational objectives). At the second level, teachers reflection went beyond technical rationality into investigating, questioning and clarifying the end objectives and the assumptions behind teaching activities. At the highest level of reflection, the critical reflection, teachers incorporated moral and ethical questions into their line of thinking. Valli [20] summarized five different types of reflection as follows: technical reflection, reflection-in and on action, deliberative reflection, personalistic reflection, and critical reflection. Among these types of reflection, technical reflection was concerned with the general instruction and management behaviors aspect of classroom teaching, deliberative reflection was concerned with the whole range of teaching (students, curriculum, rules and organization of the classroom, etc.), personalistic reflection was concerned with teachers personal growth and relationships with students, and critical reflection was concerned with the social, moral, and political dimensions of schooling. A typology of reflection which was developed to bridge theory and practice in an effort to teach reflective practice to preservice teachers was proposed and the typology profiles three dimensions of teachers reflective thought: descriptive, comparative, and critical [23]."

* Nave-Bayes algorithm - for every pre-determined category, there are a certain number of words associated with each. (so, if you did the clusters by hand instead of with code, perhaps)